Hi guys, in this video we are going to start building our COVID-19 stats web app. In here you can see all the countries are given which are affected by COVID-19 and you can see for each country you have cases like active cases and confirm cases and recovered and deaths. Now for each country there are bunch of countries are in here so I have created one search box in where you can just type in your country name and just know what's the state or what's the cases of COVID-19 in their countries. Now in our back to code I have created one app called React app COVID-19 Hyphen Cases in which we are gonna do our coding. Now if you don't know how I have created this React app you can just go to the previous video and just see how I have created this new app. Now in here first of all I'm going to convert this functional component app into a class component such that we can use more functions or methods that are given in a class. So simply we're gonna just type in class app and that's gonna extend with react.com. where benefits are many important sub methods are there. So first method is render method in where we can just return it and what we're gonna return we're gonna return the same JSX syntax and the syntax the JSX syntax is the same. This is the JSX syntax that is called Javascript template extension template. Now in here what you can see that we're gonna learn one more concept called state concept so that we can achieve declarative concept. Now for this we're gonna just use constructor make each class has default constructor in here or method. Now we can use super methods such that we can use attributes of React app component in our app component. Now in here one thing called is this start state. Now this is one important object in here. So basically this start state is a Javascript object which we're gonna inject into our render method. When the method means we're gonna inject in this JSX syntax. So first of all JSX is a estimate look like structure which is written inside render method but it is not a JS HTML because you can see that in an image tag you cannot see one slash at the end in actual HTML syntax. So it is different from actual HTML syntax. Now in this start state first we're gonna just use some name like name is some Francisco as I have said that the start state is a Javascript object which we're gonna inject in our render method. Now for how can we do this? Now in here what we can do we can just type in here using curly braces and in curly braces you can use this dot state dot name. Now just you can see if you just type in here and go to your browser you can see the Francisco is written in here. So what's what you can see in here that there is one thing called curly braces. Now curly braces is what makes it more dynamic because curly braces inside the curly braces it is a expression it is a Javascript expression and what is a logo in here it is a variable but it's also a Javascript expression. So you can know from here that we have used the curly braces for injecting some dynamically but it's not dynamically we are just assigning some variables and using name as a variable in here which we're gonna get from this start state dot name. Like we haven't started building our app but I'm going to just give some knowledge about what is happening inside this syntax. In here you can see the class name which is simply like CSS which we're gonna use with class but in here we add gives class name that's because class is basically a keyword for Javascript and so React has given class name for using class in our JSX. Now in here you can see that each attribute is a JSX attribute not a HTML attribute so you can see that this is completely different with the HTML. Now one more thing you can do in here like you can see that it is given this or state dot name. Now if I want to change the name of this dot state dot name to something called just give Michael now how can we do that? So for doing plus four we're gonna create some event as you know for changing anything you want some event so what we're gonna do we're gonna just create a one button and simply say the name change name. Now what's first we can see that if we got the button or not yeah we got the button. Now in here we're just what we're gonna do when we click on button it's gonna change the name in here so it is gonna use by on click and on click is a function so it will it is a on a so I'm firing an anonymous function in here and now I'm going to change the name of this dot state so we can do this like yeah this dot state dot name is equal to Michael yeah yeah you can use it into your own laptop but I assure that this is wrong you can see this is wrong so how can we do this for doing this we are the we are given method called this dot set state in here this gives I have create I have open and close curly braces in here you're gonna just give the properties that you want to change so in here I have only one property name and I'm going to change into Michael now it's done so what I have done this is on click method but it's not the actual HTML on click method you can see that in actual on click method is written like this on click but in here in react you have camel cases on click many methods are there in react which is in camel cases and on click is a event which we're gonna call with an anonymous function and we're gonna use this dot set state and we are changing the name to Michael now if we look into our browser and just click on change name you can see that we got Michael so there are maybe three things we have learned in this video first of all how can we convert our function component into a class component second of second of all what is a state so we study the JavaScript object which we are gonna inject into our JSX in text now what's a JSX JSX is a HTML look like structure but it is written inside JavaScript and there is one curly braces so inside the curly braces what we're gonna write we're gonna write JavaScript expression so it is an expression now I have also used one event call and when we are gonna use button and when we're gonna click on it it's gonna change the state of name to Michael so thank you in this video we have learned these things in the next video we're gonna definitely start building our app so thanks