Hi guys in this video we are going to definitely start building our app. So first of all we want the countries data. So in here I am going to use this API for getting all the data of the countries. So I have created one state and have property called countries in it's an area because that's where we are going to store it. And there is component did mount method that is given by react at component. And these methods are life cycle methods. There are other methods also like the update will mount will unmount. So these are called life cycle methods because these are methods going to get run whenever the whenever a certain point of time. And if we just hold on the component did mount it's give the definition that it will be immediately called after a component is mounted. So in here what we are going to do we are going to fetch the contents or data of the countries. And I am going to use a sync a bit syntax. So in here I am going to get the response and use the await syntax and use the fetch native API call. In here I am going to just give the URL and I am going to again get the countries data from here and use the await and response dodgeson. This is what means like it is going to fulfill the promise and it will return the countries. Now after that we are going to just set the state and you can use simple countries like this and it will be saved to the countries variable. Now this is JavaScript flexibility syntax in here you can see and if you know JavaScript then you probably know what I have done in here. Now what's next we are what's next is we are going to just for each country we are going to get the data of Corona cases. Now in here again we are going to use const. Oh once again we are going to use this dot state dot countries because from each country we are going to get the result of the country states. So I am going to save in two states stats in here we are going to use 4 each method so that we can go to each element and use the fetch method again. Now it will be again a synchronous process so that's why I am going to use a sync. Now in here what we are going to use we are going to use const response because we are going to get again response and again use the await and fetch fetch method or just sec yeah I am just going to copy it again because like I have not copied before that's why. Now it will be a string interpolation syntax in here so I am just going to use this our string syntax. Now in here I am just going to use country dot slug. Now in here where did it go okay just sec. Now our component did mount if you just go into your component did mount I am just going to run it and just comment out this line and just run it. And in here you can see that we got all the countries in here and I am going to use this property slug in here so that's why I have used slug in here just comment out again. Now from here what we get we get data again wait and use response digestion sorry it will be fulfilled and return the data. Now I am going to show one new syntax way to use set state whenever you are going to use the data to set the state to the same properties in here because it's an array but in here what we get we got one element or one country's data but we want all the country's data and it will be set one by one one by one. So in here just use the syntax in here properly previous state you can use any name in here it's just a callback function you can say and I have used the previous state that means this previous state you can say that whenever this function going to run this previous state will be the state of the previous state has been set just you can know what I have told you. Just the same thing we have used we are going to use curly braces and I am going to set in the stats and use the previous state dot stats dot concat just to post the element that what we are going to post. Now in here we are going to post data but as you know the data is already array but you can say that the last element of this array is what we want is the latest data you can say. Now for this I am going to select the last data for this one we can use data dot length minus one that's it yeah this is what we want now I am just going to save it and you can just looking to your react developer tools and you can see we got the stats but you can see there is some properties have undefined well what's the problem in here so you can use your JavaScript mind and just know what's the error because if you just okay just to use what's the array in here you can say that the data we have got is nothing is like an empty array so that's why it's giving the error because there are some countries like I have already used this one Christmas Island and you got nothing you got none data in here it doesn't give any fail response but it doesn't give any data so there are some countries that gives no data so that's one before running this this state state state we're just going to check for data dot length now if you just save it and look again into our browser and go to our states you can see that we got the perfect we got the data yeah that's what we want now in our this render method we're going to have sold this we're first going to sell only the country name so how can we do that we can do that by using curly braces as you know that after using curly braces you can write java scripts index and you can write java scripts index using this dot and you can use and after that this dot state dot states dot map because we are mapping or we're going to return some JSX index from here such that we can show the name of the country now just use it country and for now we're just going to give a chun tag and use again java scripts index for sewing the country name in here dot country and if you just look into in here perfect we got the country name in here but again there is one problem which we will see at the later point of time but yeah for now that says okay so in this video we have learned what we have learned we have learned that we have states of countries and stats we have used a fetch API and using a sync await method which can be very very I recommend to use because this is so understood that you can understand anything that first of all we have faced a response is going to return the countries it's going to set the state and for each country we have again faced a response again get the data and in here we have used another method another syntax for setting the state and we can check that if the data length is 0 or minus 0 or greater than 0 that's this is and we have also used the curly presses and inside curly presses we have used the syntax java script syntax and also jxx so yeah this is what we have done in the next video we are going to see more of this app thank you