Hi guys, in this video we are going to build our own components. As you can see, there are the components in here. This is a country component you can see. And these are all bunch of country components. And it is inside one wrapper component called Contrarilyist component. We are going to see how it's built. So for now, back to code. In here, you can see that one thing more I have to do. That whenever you go to your browser and check in your component, ReactOlopertools, you can see that for each country you haven't got the country code. Because in the next video you can see that it is important to get the country code. So how can we get the country code? As you can know that for each country, in the country app, in the country, you have the ISO 2. This is what a country code means. So I'm going to get the country code from this. So how can we do that? As you can know, there is one concept or there is one concept. In the JavaScript called SpreadingOperator. If you know that's fine, if you don't know, just see. First of all, this is an object. And we have wrapped around curly braces because it's an object. If it's an array, we have to use the square bracket, but it's an object. Now you have to give three dots such that it will spread out all the content inside the Java. In the object, now, in here you have to give what properties you have to change. So I have to change the country code in here. So just type in country code and just set the value in here. And we can use using country.isotu. That's it. That's how you can set the value. Now if you just save it and go to your browser, it will text on there. In here, just go to stats and just select the one. Yeah. In here, you can see that we got the country code. Yeah, definitely. Perfectly. Now we're going to create one components. I have already created one folder called components inside the source folder. Because we're going to learn in here how we're going to build our own component just as app.js has been built. And using to our project. So in components folder, we're going to again create a new folder. So it's that we have like it's it is a systematic way to create a developer's can see what you have done and also build on upon it. So you have to like write a clean code and and use a like easy to debug. So I have building like a clean code and yeah, now I'm going to create a new file and it's name a control list and just say control is torjs not to build not to give big name. Now just give import react from react such that we can view. That's why we have are going to use react. And in here I'm going to use functional component in here not to build a class component. Now in here. I'm going to return something but what we're going to return we're going to see next. And for now just to kind of export it such that we can import it in the country in the app.js. So in here you have to like import it. So just import it import what import control list import list from where dots less components less control list less control list. Yeah. And you don't have to give dot JS extension because it knows the editor knows what you are doing. Now I'm just going to remove it or just copy it. And that's what we are going to write into our. Contrally storjs in here I'm going to use countries. Or just use stats. Yeah stats is better. And just select what we're going to give it to it. This or a status. That's it. Now we just save it. And you can see this is an attribute and we are just assigning the all the data to a variable call stats. Now how can we get data that we have assigned to this country list component or this country list component. So in here what we get is props. This is a props. There are two things that is stat and props. And I'm going to differentiate between tools in later videos for now just look into it. And this props is just like a state. It's a JavaScript object. Now in here what we get we get these things. Now we don't have to write this because it's not a class. So we have to remove it. And in the place of stats we're going to use props in here. And we're just going to write this one. Yeah. Yeah that's it. Yeah if just looking to your project you can see we got the names. Yeah that's why you get this good. Now what we're going to do like you can see that it's good but this is a country list. Oh there there's name naming problem. Yeah just changing to country list in here because after this we're going to build country component not a country list component in here. Yeah that's good. Yeah that's good. Yeah that's fine. Now in here this is a listing of countries you can say but we're going to build each component has a country a country component in where we have amazed the name of the country and the description of the Corona cases. So for that purpose we have to build one more folder called country. And that's what the developer do man. This react developer you have to know what how much you have to divide one company. That's what red developer do and that's what I'm doing in here. So I'm going to just use country component country.js. In here I'm going to use import react from react. Yeah. And use the cost country and we are going to use props in here. Yes you have to know because this is how we can get the data from other component. Now next what it is. Now next we're going to just remove it but we don't need this right now. What we need is import what import import country import country from where from dot dot slash country slash country that's what we need. I'll just check in yeah okay okay yeah. In here what we're going to give we're going to give country. And in country we're going to give the state stats you can give your stats is what we're going to give. And what we're going to give props country yeah just give it the country yeah. This is what we're going to give. That's it yeah. Oh just one thing we have to export it also so just you export default country. And in here just for check for right now we're going to just give the props props dot states dot country. I'll just save it and save this also and just go to your project and you can see that we got the same thing well done perfect. Now in the console you can see there is one warning you can see and it's always warning whenever you're going to use map method inside the JSX. So here you can see each child in a list should have a unique key prop what this means now in here this country you can see this is a country list. But there are a bunch of countries are in here so how can react distinguished between each country because this have similar component that's how that's the key comes into the picture from the key the react knows what or which component have to change or re render so that other components don't have to re render. So whenever the chance come whenever we have to modify one component and we don't have to modify another component that time we have to use or that time react use the key attribute now in here in our country list we're going to give key. And for this perfect match will be the country dot country code right because each country have different country code that's why I'm going to use country in here now you can see that we don't have we haven't got any error yeah also you can see in the components you have like for each country you have the key. And have such that the key can be used for the react. Thank you in this video we have run the component concepts in the next video we're going to just style our these components country list and country and it will look much better and it will be look like this yeah thanks. Thank you.