Hi guys, in this video we are going to start styling our components. But first of all we are going to get the emails and we are going to also describe our Corona virus cases. So I have an API, Country Flags API. In here you can get a source or the link. And it has used the BE, that's for the country code. That's why I have saved the country code in our project. So I'm just going to copy it and I'm going to link in our description for the link. Now in our project, in our project in here, I'm just going to, in Country.js, I'm just going to paste it in here. But as you know, this is a dynamic because we don't have a hard coded country code. So that's why we have to get dynamically. Now in here it will be string interpolation. Because in here I'm going to use dollar sign and use the props. And from props we have used states and we're going to use what? We're going to use Country code, yeah, right one. So I'm going to use the Country code in here. Now again it gives some error that's because like it doesn't write because we have to give Alt in here. And in here you can give the country name as alternate. Yeah, just give it the alternate. So I'm going to use props dot states dot country. Now if you just save it and go to our project. You can see that we got the flag now next to what now we have to give just change into s2. And what we have to do next we have to give a new day in which we have the description and what we want the what are the description that we want. So in here what we want we want active cases that guess okay. Now in here we're going to use p tag and use the dollars and the curly braces such that I'm going to inject some values from the props. Now again I'm going to use string interpolation and use like this active and use colon and just write dollar sign and use what props dot states. Yeah, that's what this. So I'm just going to copy it and just after that we're going to just change it wherever it's needed. Well, all places it's needed. That's why now in here what we know we want recovered. So just going to give recovered and here we're going to give recovered and in here we're going to give debts. In here we're going to give again that's now in here we're going to give confirmed. Well, I have to write some card code with it now just give in here now that's it. Yeah, that's what we want. Yeah, we got the all the things right now next thing we're going to do we're going to just styling our project. Now in our app.js here I have app so I'm just going to remove this whole bunch of glasses that we don't need. Now in here I'm just going to use I'm just going to use this styling in here you can see that we have got worth of 95%. I have used display flags and all the elements will be in column and it will be all in center with respect to the 95% worth and all the element will be align center means to lead the center site. Now if you just save it you can see right now it's not look good. Now that's all in app.css is done in what we need in our country list we're going to first of all we're going to create one new file and its name will be country list.css. And in here in import we're going to import this css by using country list.css. And in here I'm just going to use glass name give the country list glass name I have given its name. I'm just going to copy it. Oh just man what have I'm just going to copy this text now in here just I'm going to copy paste css. So this is what I have copied this is the grid display and the template will be column in grid template column. This is one very helpful syntax you can say and I want I want to recommend that you have you to do this because this is what actual developer do. Now I have used a grid gap of one with Rm and worth is 100% such that it will take whole place of which 95% now if you just looking to here. That's something yeah it's good yeah it's responsive also you can see now again our more things to see now this is complete the country list is complete now. Other is what I'm going to do is in country. In country I'm going to create one new css file country dot css and in country dot j s in VS code if you are new you can use like this such that you can see also the code in here also see the css file. And this is the button is here for you to split the editor now in here I'm just going to import country dot css and I'm going to use class name in here say the name country. Then there is one more class that I'm going to use in here and that's call it is describe now I'm just going to save it and in here I'm just going to use dot country. There this is what I have copied just to say yeah this is what I have copied now these are all the css that we need for the project completion now you can see the wall that's not look good well we have the font well we are going to change the font in the later video for now you can see this is what. So this is what our project looks like so this half is done the next video we are going to create our own search box such that we can use this search box in any place in any project and yeah that's all thanks.